###I like Macs and Hate Myself_June 11, 2013_#####Hello, my name is Dan and I am an Apple hater.Most people that know me know that I can't stand Apple.  I don't like Apple's culture, the price tags on their products, or their design principles.  I think the iPhone is still a product of 2006, and that the iPad is narrow-minded.  I can't live without PC games, and PC gaming doesn't work on Macs.  I could rant for hours about how Apple doesn't understand the Internet, or how they've screwed up this or forgotten about that.  I am not unfounded in my dislike for Apple, and I firmly believe that I am not just "too cool for school," if people still say that.  It is my belief that Apple is on course to make some extremely serious mistakes in the next 10-15 years and that if they do so they will be the Blackberry or the Palm of 2030.But that's not why I'm writing this. I'm writing this because I've come to a realization, one that has been brewing for over a year now, and one that frightens me.  I've been working as an intern at Facebook for the past few weeks, writing code for upwards of nine hours a day on a 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina Display.  I've had extensive, continuous exposure to the operating system, not that I was given any choice in the matter; I've been developing for iOS, and this can only be done on a Mac. (Thanks, Apple.) I've been using OS X on school iMacs and friends' MacBooks for ages, but something was different this time, and I couldn't pin down what. When people ask me why I dislike OS X so much, I always found it easiest to point to it's collection of bundled software.  The only worthwhile app included on a Mac is Terminal, the rest are utter garbage.  Safari, iTunes, Finder, the App Store, Mail, Calendar, etc. can all be scrapped, in my opinion.  Naturally, when I started using my work laptop, I installed Chome, SublimeText, Mou, and so on. And after all that customization was done, I slowly found myself growing more accustomed to the experience.  I found myself growing more… _fond_ of the experience.#####Hello my name is Dan and my next laptop will be a Mac.On the technical end, switching to a Mac is tempting. Programming on a Unix-based machine is a must; unless I decide to work at Microsoft, my career as a software engineer will be spent on a Mac.  It will be great to be able to copy bash commands directly into terminal instead of translating them into MS-DOS commands.  Also, OS X has a much more active developer community when it comes to productivity and developer applications.  I can disable Dashboard, Launchpad, and the dock, and replace them with Alfred, MagicPrefs, and Cinch. Under all the iClutter, there's a quite usable operating system.  And that's what so surprising.  I've always faulted Macs for their software, but now it seems my criticisms have grown increasingly invalid. I really enjoy using spaces, and while I did have some multi-monitor issues on Mountain Lion, apparently Mavericks fixes them.The hardware is, as ever, excellent; there's a lot to like about Apple's latest line of Macbook Pros.  The retina display is gorgeous, the trackpad is amazing, they have all the necessary ports (minus ethernet, alas), and run on top-of-the line components. My problem with Mac hardware is actually more in selection.  The screen size and resolution on the 13" laptops are too small across the board (including the 13" MacBook Pro with Retina Display, which has an effective resolution of 1280 x 800), and the 15" MacBook Pro with Retina Display is noticeably heavier than my Lenovo Thinkpad X1 Carbon. Running a 13" MacBook Pro with Retina Display at 1650 x 1050 is a decent option, but reviews have indicated that the 13" model is underpowered, and I prefer full HD anyway.  Obviously, if I am looking for a way to drop $2500 on a computer the choice is clear, but it's hard to stomache spending all that money if I'm not going to be using 90% of the included software.  I've toyed with switching to Linux, but that really just replaces one problem with another.  Linux is great for programming, but is a bummer from a UI/UX perspective, and has a limited software selection.  It's true, you can do anything with Linux that you can with Mac, but it's just a matter of how hard you have to work to get it done.  #####Confusions / ConclusionsThere are so many problems with getting a Mac, and arguably just as many sitting with Windows.  Windows 8 is built on a strong core, but can be aggravating.  I don't exactly have problems with Windows 8, but it's just not satisfying to use, at least for a nerd like me.  Behind the flashy Start Screen trash Windows 8 is a clean, fast operating system.  And the same goes for OS X.  It's hard to justify buying a Mac just to put other software on it, but I realized that OS X now has both the ecosystem and hardware advantage over Windows, a recent shit to be sure.  A MacBook will never run PC games, but that's why I have (and always will have) a Windows desktop.  The truth is that by continuing to use a Windows laptop, I'm only delaying the inevitable.  For programming, for design work, for running a website, and for general compatibility, OS X is the way to go.  It pains me to think about carrying around a MacBook as my personal laptop. It's so much easier to complain about Apple as a company when I don't own any of their products, but I'm trapped.  I'm going to need to be on OS X sooner or later, so there's no reason not to switch now.  Especially with a new batch of Haswell-equipped MacBook Pros launching sometime this year, the hardware is increasingly enticing.  I going to have to learn to balance my morals with the practicalities of life.  It may sound like I'm taking myself too seriously but it's true.  The question isn't if I'm going to buy a Mac, it's whether or not I'll be able to live with myself when I do._Alternate titles for this post include:_- _My Relationship with Apple: A Tale of Confusion and Name-Calling_- _On Apple: Why I Hate Them and Why I'm About to Give Them a Lot of Money_- _Why I'll be Carrying Around a MacBook in the Near Future_