### Updates: RSS and Blog Features
_May 9, 2013_ 

I've just updated the site with a few new features!  I now have an <a target="#more-social-button" class="internal-link" href="#">RSS Feed</a>, where you can subscribe to my blog posts! In addition, I have also added blog post preview to the blog roll, so that longer posts don't take up the whole screen.  Plus, there's a nifty animation transitioning from the blog into a post and back!  Click the "see-more" button to try it out, and be sure to <a target="#email-button" class="internal-link" href="#">let me know</a> what you think!

This update is in anticipation of longer blog posts to come, and my blog infrastructure (much of which I'm writing myself), needs improvement.  The system I use is a little complicated, but sort of cool.  I first write my blog posts in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) using [MarkdownPad](http://markdownpad.com/).  I save my finished posts to an HTML file on my server.  Then, when I commit my update to the live site, a git pre-commit hook updates the list of blog posts that my site has access to, and runs a Python script that generates my <a target="#more-social-button" class="internal-link" href="#">RSS Feed</a>.  It's a little wonky.  

Browser back and forward buttons are currently unsupported by my website, which is a bummer, and right now while I can link to blog posts, that displayed URL gets changed to the default [`danrs.ch/#blog`](danrs.ch/#blog).  This means that URL sharing is hard, and if you refresh, you see the blog roll as opposed to the full post.  Further updates will probably involve introducing new URLs for each page to fix this.  