### I Hate Cross-Browser Compatibility: A Website Redesign Gone Wrong

*February 22, 2014*

There comes a time where I get just bored enough that I'm restless and so bored that I'm lazy.  During these times, I write myself a website from scratch.  The last time was around finals season of last year, and it resulted in the first iteration of my personal website (which despite my best intentions was bloated and ugly).  Anyway, it's happened again, and so now I have a new website. Hope you enjoy it!

I had a pretty simple concept for this new site and it didn't take all that long to roll out, but along the way I ran into some pretty funky bugs, many of which almost brought me to tears.

##### The Rotating Tagline

My new website was really supposed to be simple, I swear.  Just my name, how to contact me, and a blog post or three.  After I drew together a mockup however, I quickly began to feel that I needed something more fun.  From that urge came the idea for a rotating tagline.  

The basic pseudo-code for my JavaScript is as follows:

``` pseudocode
every 6 seconds:
    do:
        newSentance := someRandomSentance()
    while numWordsShared(newSentance, currentSentance) < 1

    for each newWord, oldWord in newSentance, currentSentance:
        if newWord != oldWord:
            oldWord.fadeOut()
            containerForWord.resize(newWord.width())
            newWord.fadeIn()

    currentSentance := newSentance
```

Challenges here start with `newWord.width()`.  How do you find the width of arbitrary text in JavaScript?  My first instinct was to write some function that takes the text size and number of characters and interpolates, but as you can imagine this was a nightmare on one browser, nevermind multiple.  Even if I were to have used a fixed width font (I considered it), slight differences in text rendering yield jumps in the animation, or text that is cut off.  No, I'd have to try something else.  

After some creative Googling, I found and adapted a function that calculates text width by creating an invisible text element in the DOM with the same styling as the text in question. Take a look:

```javascript
function calculateWordWidth(text, classes) {
    classes = classes || [];
    classes.push('textDimensionCalculation');
    var div = document.createElement('div');
    div.setAttribute('class', classes.join(' '));
    div.innerHTML = text;
    document.body.appendChild(div);
    var width = jQuery(div).outerWidth(true);
    div.parentNode.removeChild(div);
    return width;
}
```

Fairly straightforward, but definitely non-obvious.  The element is created and given all the classes passed in as well as the `testDimensionCalculation` class, which makes it invisible and absolutely positioned (as to not interfere with any elements the user can see):

```css
.textDimensionCalculation {
    position: absolute;
    visibility: hidden;
    height: auto;
    width: auto;
    display: inline-block;
    white-space: nowrap;
}
```

After the width of the `<div>` is calculated, it is destroyed. 

With the width of the text determined, the next step would be to implement it.  The markup, it turns out, was more challenging than I would have expected.  My first instinct was to wrap each word in a `<span>`, and manipulate them in JavaScript:

```html
<div class="sentence">
    I <span class="verb">verb</span>
    <span class="obj">object</span>
    <span class="preposition">preposition</span>
    <span class="noun">noun</span>.
</div>
```

Consider animating from the word "preposition" to the word "about", however.  When the width of the `<span>` is animated, the text starts to break up into multiple lines , and the height of the `<span>` increases randomly.  This causes spastic jumping of different words during the animation.  In order to smoothly animate words, I put each `<span>` in a container, and added another `<span>` to control the actual width of the container.  Both `<span>`s contain the same text, but one has an `invisible` class, and the other has a `visible` class.

```html
<div class="sentence">
    I
    <div class="word verb">
        <span class="visible">verb</span>
        <span class="invisible">verb</span>
    </div>
    ...
```

```css
.word {
    display: inline-block;
    height: 2.5rem;
    position: relative;
    text-align: center;
    overflow: hidden;
}

word span {
    top: 0;
    position: relative;
    overflow: hidden;
    display: inline-block;
}

.visible {
    height: 2.5rem;
    display: inline;
    position: absolute;
    bottom: 0;
    right:0;
    left: 0;
}

.invisible {
    visibility: hidden;
}
```

The way this works is that the container doesn't ever have a width applied to it, rather the `invisible` `<span>` expands and shrinks.  The `visible` `<span>` has absolute positioning, so it has no influence on the size of its container. Then, in order to change between to words, I fade out the `visible` `<span>`, animate the `invisible` `<span>` to the new width, and then fade in the `visible` `<span>`.

For alignment reasons, and because `<div>`s around all the words removes whitespace, I actually had to add `<div class="word">` elements containing just `&nbsp;` and wrap `I` and `.` in `<div>`s as well.

```html
<div class="sentence">
    <div class="word">
        <span>I</span>
    </div><div class="word">
        <span>&nbsp;</span>
    </div><div class="word verb">
        <span class="visible">verb</span>
        <span class="invisible">verb</span>
    </div><div class="word">
        <span>&nbsp;</span>
    </div><div class="word obj">
        <span class="visible">object</span>
        <span class="invisible">object</span>
    </div><div class="word">
    ...
```

I had never heard of it before, but I also ran into whitespace issues between the `<div>`s, which was solved most simply [by removing any space after the closing tag of the `<div>`](http://css-tricks.com/fighting-the-space-between-inline-block-elements/) (`</div><div class=...`).  It was a massive pain across different browsers.  Some browsers would display the sentence just as I expected, others would cut off part of the words, others would have an unnatural amount of spacing, etc.  The whitespace logic of HTML still deceives me, and because it's so loosely defined, there's no way to understand whether or not you're being compliant.

##### Animated Name Abbreviation (The Blog Title)

When I was designing my blog, I wanted a fairly chromeless interface.  I don't need any fancy widgets, menus, other links, or pages.  My website is really just the splash page and my blog, so there really isn't anywhere else to go.  I did want a link back to the splash page though, so without any chrome there really wasn't a place to put the link.  

Enter my ridiculous idea for my name to animate into my initials and pin to the upper left corner of the screen as you scroll down the page.  I made it work for screens wider than 1024px, and lucky for me this behavior doesn't make sense on any smaller screens (because if it did they couldn't run the JavaScript fast enough).